---
title: Going Through Graduate School With Imposter's Syndrome
author: Heather
layout: post
---

Do you ever have that feeling that you've made it somewhere, whether in a career or a school, but that you don't belong? Like at any moment someone will find out you weren't good enough to be there? That you were just faking the whole time? Welcome to the world of Imposter's Syndrome.

I have always felt this way, but I didn't realize there was an actual term for it until I enrolled in graduate school. At the orientation, surrounded by new students and feeling like I should be anywhere but there, the presenter asked us if we felt like we didn't belong there, if we felt like we didn't deserve to be there. Shockingly, most of the students raised their hand. The speaker told us that most people have this feeling (at least in graduate school), though it is more prominent in females. While that doesn't take the feeling away, it does make me feel like I'm not alone now that I know that most others are just like me, faking it until we make it.

### My Experience
I've never had confidence in myself. Some people realize this after talking to me for longer than 5 minutes; others can't. It really just depends on how on-gaurd I am on a particular day. I never think anything I've done is good enough or worth any amount of praise. Any pride I ever feel in myself disappears like a gust of air. 

When I was in undergrad, I constantly needed validation that I belonged. I had wanted to do research, but didn't think I was smart enough to do it. After explaining this to my professor one day, he asked if I wanted to work with him on an idea he had. If he hadn't asked me I never would have made it to where I am today. I ended up with two majors, became president of two clubs, joined three honors societies, did three independent studies, attended conferences, and helped out the department any way possible. I don't mean to say that in a bragging sense, but I simply need to list what I did just to feel like I was supposed to be there. 

Before going to graduate school I had never given it any thought. Of course, I wanted to go because I love to learn, but the idea of being surrounded by people so much smarter than me terrified me. I didn't want to apply because I was afraid that I would either be rejected outright, or just be accepted because I looked better on paper than I actually was. My undergraduate professors convinced (forced) me to apply.

The truth is that nobody really understands what they are doing, especially in graduate school. Everyone is constantly looking towards others trying to figure out what is expected of them, where the bar is set. I believe most people don't think ther are good enough, and I've found that the braggarts are the ones that need the most validation that they belong. 
