---
title: I Picked up Computer Science Out of Spite
author: Heather
layout: post
---

I've never been the best student, though I've never been the worst either. I was always a strictly A/B student with the occasional C thrown in. Growing up I had dreams of being a doctor, a vet, a painter, a singer, an electrical engineer, a teacher, and a chemist (before I found out you couldn't just blow things up). In high school I kept being asked "What do you want to do with your life?". My answer was (and still is) "I don't know". So I went to community college. 

Orignially, I had planned on majoring in Physics because I adored my high school course, but after taking it in college I ended up hating the course and blamed it on my professor. Before I could go into the higher level Physics taught by a different instructor I needed to take Calculus. It was in pre-Calculus that I found my love of Mathematics. The other students were miserable, but everything to me felt like a puzzle that I wanted to keep exploring.

I continued taking Mathematics courses with Dr. Crocker, and my love for it grew more and more with each passing class. One of my biggest regrets is that I never thanked her for finally showing me a subject I was passionate about, but I can't go back and change time. I moved on to Longwood University where I enrolled with a major in Mathematics. It turns out that to get the degree, I needed to take a Computer Science introductory course. Fine, no problem. I had taken a 3-credit Python course at community college but the credits didn't transfer, so I enrolled into a C++ course with my future undergraduate research advisor. The beginning of the class was a little difficult, but eventually I felt that same enjoyment with Computer Science that I did Mathematics. It was a shame that if I added the second major I would be forced to stay an extra year, but there was always the possibility of getting a minor.

One day I had a meeting scheduled with my course advisor to go over my coursework plan for the next two years before I graduated. It was maybe a couple hours before the meeting and I was waiting outside my next Mathematics class for the previous class's students to leave the room. Next to me, one of my Computer Science classmates was standin; I guess she was waiting for her specific class to start as well. The previous class's students started filing out. When the Computer Science girl looked up and saw that the majority of the exiting students were female, she said something along the lines of "It must be a math class. Not many girls can do Computer Science. There's only six of us." 

While it may have been true that there were only six Computer Science females in the eighty-some Computer Science students, what she said rubbed me the wrong way. She wasn't inherently trying to be insulting or rude, just being a braggart. I instantly didn't care if I had to spend another year at undergraduate, I felt like I wanted to prove her wrong; that any girl with the motivation to do Computer Science could, even if they weren't the best student.

That afternoon I went to my course advisor and picked up the second major in Computer Science, and the rest is history. Since then, I did two independent studies for Computer Science, became the ACM club president, got inducted into Upsilon Pi Epsilon, participated in a hack-a-thon, enrolled into graduate school for computer science, and am currently interning at Lawrence Livermore National Lab. Sometimes spite can take you pretty far. 

Was picking up the major incredibly petty and childish? 100% yes. Do I regret it? Never. I feel like sometimes it is when you feel like you have something to prove that you can accomplish the most.

If you've made it this far, thanks for coming to my TeD Talk
